positioning the dental team
Dentist (Operator):
Ensure your back remains straight by sitting upright in your
chair, with your feet flat on the floor to provide
stability.
Position your elbows close to your body to maintain a comfortable and controlled posture.
Additionally, adjust the patient's oral cavity so that it is at the
same level as your elbows for optimal accessibility and ease of work.
Dental Assistant:
As a dental assistant, your seating position should be about 4-5 inches higher than that of the dentist.
This elevation allows you to comfortably assist while maintaining an effective line of sight.
Keep your back straight to promote good posture; your feet should rest firmly on a foot platform to provide support.
Make sure your body is oriented towards the patient’s head to facilitate effective communication and assistance during procedures.
Ergonomics:
Adopting proper ergonomic practices is essential in dentistry to prevent common work-related injuries.
Effective ergonomics can significantly reduce the risk of developing conditions like carpal tunnel syndrome, which
affects hand and wrist function, as well as neck and back pain resulting from poor
posture.
By focusing on these principles, dental professionals can minimize the occurrence
of cumulative trauma disorders, ensuring a healthier and more sustainable work
environment.